This was such an interesting movie to watch I definitely want to know what English teachers think about this movie. I would totally listen to an hour long podcast where a bunch of English teachers discuss this movie in depth.
What's interesting about this adaptation is the role of Ross. The film revolves around Macbeth and how he believes he discovered his unhappy future but wants to do anything to cling and hold onto power. But constantly Ross shows up in a suspicious role seemly pulling both tides of power. Firstly, Ross is the executor of Cawdor (which he offers to Macbeth), and is the one to deliver the news. Then, Ross is the third murderer that happily participates in killing banquo. He not only kills banquo but lets Fleance live in the company of the old man. I thought that it might be a coincidence that the old man and the three witches are played by the same actor but to me it seems like one big setup. Especially if we assume that Ross and the "three witches" knew each other previously, that's why they planted the notion of Macbeth coming into power in the first place. And why leave Fleance alive? Maybe to mold the young boy in Ross's image, possibly teeing him up to become queen after a possible death of both Malcolm and Macduff.
This makes the film a lot more interesting when you think about it through this view. Macbeth sees visions of Banquo through the witches which is already present in the original play. But now we know that not only did Macbeth want to selfishly steal power, he fell into the trap that Ross built.
Honestly, love the story and love the idea of the adaptation but it's very hard to get through just because of the language they use here. It's historically accurate true, but that's why I'm so interested if English teachers would like this adaptation. Does it not only stick to the words of the original play but also preserve Shakespeare's authorial intent?
They also forgot to drop my favorite line of Macbeth, something that I still think about years after my high school English class: "security is mortals' chiefest enemy."